NOVELTY We stated, "While our tracking and segmentation algorithms are novel, they are designed to be efficient and are thus simple. The main contribution of this paper is the system as a whole.." Our main contribution is an integrated method to track, segment and analyze cells with dynamic tree structures. This has never been attempted before, and represents a powerful new tool for neuroscientists to study dynamic behavior. However, we contend that the tracking and segmentation contain minor novelties. For tracking, the weighting function and pruning of the graph are novel. Using shortest paths to model the likelihood a pixel connects to a nucleus in a Bayesian framework is also. If R1 has references to refute these claims, they should have been provided in the review to give us an opportunity to defend our position.

VALIDATION While a comparison to ground truth is desirable, it was not possible. Human-annotated data was not available, and there is no protocol to evaluate our most interesting result: neurite tracking/segmentation. However, by reproducing published analyses from commercial software and confirming unquantified observations, we demonstrate that our approach is useful to biologists. Qualitatively, the supplementary videos are convincing.

COMPARISON Software exists for tracking/segmenting somata or static tracing, but none, including V3D (confirmed by H. Peng), can segment and track the whole neuron. Our evaluation is more informative than focusing on the soma, which is not the interesting part of our work.

SIGNIFICANCE There is significant natural variability in neuron morphology and dynamics, reflected in our error bars and other works [6]. It is standard practice to test for statistical significance [1,6] which we provide in Fig4 and supp material. P-value assesses whether two populations are statistically different, p<0.05 are considered statistically significant.

REFERENCES Additional refs will be added to the final version, but we cite recent, relevant, high-impact works on cell tracking and segmentation for high throughput screening. Neurons are segmented in [1]. In [3,4] machine learning techniques segment, track and classify cells in time-lapse movies. Note that R3 felt the references were appropriate.

Parameters were set using 5 videos and fixed for the other 505. To preserve anonymity, only our collaborators have access to our software, but it will be made public. Concerns regarding formatting, notation, etc will be corrected.
