MICCAI 2011

Reviews of submission #157: "Automated Quantification of Morphodynamics
for High-Throughput Live Cell Imaging Datasets"

------------------------ Submission 157, Review 4 ------------------------

Reviewer:           Primary 

------------------------ Submission 157, Review 5 ------------------------

Reviewer:           Secondary

Summary of the reviews

   All the reviewers (and the authors) agree that a key merit of the paper
   lays in its potential practical application. Almost all agree that the
   paper is fairly week on technical innovation.

   In this context evaluation is essential, and the paper fails in this
   respect. 

   The translation from research labs to hospital labs is extremely
   important, but to be successful it must be thoroughly evaluated in many
   respects, including its effectiveness and against the existing solutions.
   The authors are encouraged to take the reviewers' comments in good faith
   and to work on the aspects identified as weaknesses. After substantial
   revisions the authors should consider submission to a suitable
   publication outlet.

------------------------ Submission 157, Review 1 ------------------------

Reviewer:           External

The review

   The authors present a method for automatic tracking and segmentation of
   entire neurons including the nucleus, soma, neurites and filolopodia. The
   paper is well written. The combined techniques are not new, and the
   proposed method is more like a practical tool. There is no validation
   with existing techniques, which for example available in different
   software packages (see V3D
   http://penglab.janelia.org/proj/v3d/V3D/About_V3D.html ). The Latex
   template is extensively tweaked; the spacing between the section titles,
   main text and figure captions is much smaller than the one required by
   the MICCAI Latex template. 

   Minor comments:
   - the method is “fully automatic”, but how are the numerous thresholds
   are defined, and how sensitive is the methods to those values. There is
   not validation of that. 
   - “While our greedy tracking and probabilistic segmentation algorithms
   are
   novel, they are designed to be e_cient and thus are relatively simple.
   The main
   contribution”, did you mean to say “greedy tracking and probabilistic
   segmentation algorithms are NOT novel”, or you would REALLY argue that
   the mentioned in the paper separate techniques (not the combination) are
   indeed novel ??
   -	Fig. 1 is shown before referencing from the main text. Move the figure
   to the 3rd page.
   -	Change HeLA to HeLa 
   -	In the text the detection d_t^k is characterized by an area, etc., BUT
   at the same time is used in the norm ||u-d^k||, where u is just a 2D
   point location, how is that possible ?  
   -	“Thus, the tracking task is to provide a set of neuron detections”,
   change {X_a^1,…} to {X_a^I,…}, and also in Fig.2 
   -	in fig. 2 red and green are hardly visible
   -	caption of Figure 2 repeats the definition and text from Section 2
   -	abuse of notation, T is a last frame index and a threshold, at the same
   time.
   -	Why thresholds for D and w_e are the same (the same T)?
   -	Mentioning the numerical values for p-value in Fig. 4 is a bit of
   overkill. One should just indicate if the p-values are smaller or bigger
   than some significance level. 
   -	Avoid using “programming language” shortcuts in English, add leading
   zeros in text while mentioning numbers, for example “.30” should be
   “0.30”.  

------------------------ Submission 157, Review 2 ------------------------

Reviewer:           External

The review

   The manuscript describes a framework for neuron and sub-compartment
   segmentation and tracking in video sequences. While the manuscript is
   well written and understandable, several remarks regarding the
   bibliography and scope of the contribution remain critical:

    - scope: the contribution is clearly in the image processing field, yet
   no or little references are given on existing tools for neuron
   segmentation and/or tracking, be these methods automatic or not (see [1]
   for a review)
    - data: the imaging protocol involves 2-color images, yet figures are
   all grayscale (besides segmentation results). It is therefore confusing
   for the reader to assess the quality of the presented results (including
   supp. data)
    - validation: altough "The sheer number of cells and neurites analyzed
   helps to average out the noise", the results are not really convincing,
   even for the supposedly easier task of nuclei segmentation. Validation on
   simulated or human-segmented data would have been of greater help to
   assess the performance of the method.
    - results: the error bars in Fig.4 are indeed quite huge. Could you
   comment more on that ? Aside from segmentation/tracking errors, how about
   natural variability in neuron shape and differentiation state ?
    - availability: is this framework somehow publicly available ? It would
   be the most straightforward way to show the interested reader the
   efficiency and usefulness of the method.

   As stated in the concluding sentence, if the paper's scope is not to
   include biological conclusions, maybe more effort on validating/comparing
   the proposed approach to the literature would greatly increase the
   quality of the submitted manuscript.

   [1] E. Meijering. Neuron Tracing in Perspective. Cytometry Part A, vol.
   77, no. 7, July 2010, pp. 693-704

------------------------ Submission 157, Review 3 ------------------------

Reviewer:           External

The review

   The paper proposes an automated quantification of morphodynamics for
   high-throughput live cell imaging datasets.
   The overall system seems convincing and the supplementary data as well.
   The neurons are known to be difficult to segment and to track.
   The different algorithms  proposed are efficient and relevant.
   The literature focused on main paper in main journal in the field.
   I strongly recommend to accept this paper.


